CSE508: Network Security, Spring 2024

Homework 3: Jump Proxy
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Submission deadline: 4/12/2024 11:59pm EDT
Submission site: https://mycourses.stonybrook.edu/d2l/home/1135717


In this assignment you will develop a "jump" proxy for adding an extra layer
of protection to publicly accessible TCP services. Your program will be
written in Go using the Crypto library.

Consider for example the case of an SSH server with a public IP address. No
matter how securely the server has been configured and how strong the keys
used are, it might suffer from a "pre-auth" zero day vulnerability that allows
remote code execution even before the completion of the authentication
process. This could allow attackers to compromise the server even without
providing proper authentication credentials.

The jump proxy you are going to develop, named 'jumproxy', adds an extra layer
of encryption to connections towards TCP services. Instead of connecting
directly to the service, clients connect to jumproxy (running on the same
server that hosts the service), which then relays all traffic to the actual
service. Before relaying the traffic, jumproxy always decrypts it using a
static symmetric key. This means that if the data of any connection towards
the protected server is not properly encrypted, then the server will terminate
the connection.

This is a better option than changing the port number of the SSH server, port
knocking,  and other similar security-by-obscurity solutions, as attackers who
might want to exploit a zero day vulnerability in the protected service would
first have to know the secret key for having a chance to successfully deliver
their attack vector to the server. This of course assumes that the jump proxy
does not suffer from any vulnerability itself. Given that its task and its
code are much simpler compared to an actual service (e.g., an SSH server), and
thus its code can be audited more easily, it can be more confidently exposed
as a publicly accessible service. Furthermore, Go is a memory-safe language
that does not suffer from memory corruption bugs.

Clients who want to access the protected service should proxy their traffic
through a local instance of jumproxy, which will encrypt the traffic using the
same symmetric key used by the server. In essence, jumproxy acts both as a
client-side proxy (when the '-l' option is not provided) and as server-side
reverse proxy (when the '-l' option is provided), in a way similar to netcat.

Your program should conform to the following specification:

go run jumproxy.go [-l listenport] -k pwdfile destination port

  -l  Reverse-proxy mode: listen for inbound connections on <listenport> and
      relay them to <destination>:<port>

  -k  Use the ASCII text passphrase contained in <pwdfile>

* In client mode, jumproxy reads/writes plaintext traffic from/to stdin/stdout
  and transmits/receives it in encrypted form to/from <destination>:<port>

* In reverse-proxy mode, jumproxy should continue listening for incoming
  connections after a previous connection is terminated, and it should be able
  to handle multiple concurrent sessions (all using the same key).

* Data should be encrypted/decrypted using AES-256 in GCM mode in both
  directions. You should derive an appropriate AES key from the supplied
  passphrase using PBKDF2.

Going back to the SSH example, let's see how jumproxy can be used to protect
an SSH server. Assume that we want to protect a publicly accessible sshd
running on 192.168.0.123. First, we should configure sshd to listen *only* on
the localhost interface, making it inaccessible from the network. Then, we
fire up a reverse jumproxy instance on the same host, listening on port 2222,
and forwarding all traffic to localhost:22 (i.e., the locally running sshd):

  server> jumproxy -k mykey -l 2222 localhost 22

Clients can then connect to the SSH server using the following command:

  client> ssh -o "ProxyCommand jumproxy -k mykey 192.168.0.123 2222" localhost

This will result in the following data flow:

ssh <--stdin/stdout--> jumproxy <--socket 1--> jumproxy <--socket 2--> sshd
\_____________________________/                \__________________________/
             client                                       server           

Socket 1 (encrypted):  client:randomport <-> 192.168.0.123:2222
Socket 2 (plaintext): localhost:randomport <-> localhost:22

To test your end-to-end setup, before writing any code at all, you can achieve
a similar data flow using netcat instead of jumproxy. First, make sure the
client and server can communicate through netcat (ensure that no firewall/NAT
blocks port 2222 from receiving connections).

  server> nc -l -p 2222
  client> nc 192.168.0.123 2222

Then tunnel SSH over netcat:

  sevrer> nc -l -p 2222 -c 'nc localhost 22'
  client> ssh -o "ProxyCommand nc 192.168.0.123 2222" user@localhost

You can even use the same host as both the client and the server, so that you
can test everything on a single machine (e.g., the Kali Linux VM you have
previously used):
  
  Kali console 1> nc -l -p 2222 -c 'nc localhost 22'
  Kali console 2> ssh -o "ProxyCommand nc localhost 2222" kali@localhost

Once the above works, you just have to replace netcat with jumproxy.


What to submit:

A tarball (.tar.gz) with all required source code files and a short report
(ASCII text file is fine) with a brief description of your implementation.


Hints:

1) Mind your nonces!

2) Make sure you don't print any debug info in stdin/stdout, as in client mode
this will interfere with the transmitted data. Use stderr, or even better, a
dedicated log file.

3) SSH is a binary protocol, so you should treat all I/O as raw binary bytes.
Do not make any assumptions about strings, line endings, etc.

4) Make sure to flush send/receive buffers, if needed. If there are bytes
available, in either direction, the program should transmit them immediately.
Make sure both directions of the stream can read/write data at any time.

5) It is advisable to test each component/functionality separately, before
putting everything together. For example, you can isolate your crypto
implementation into a standalone program, and test that it works (e.g., to
encrypt/decrypt a file or stdin/stdout). First test with small files/inputs,
and then move on to very large files/inputs (which will require splitting the
stream in smaller chunks). Similarly, you can isolate your networking code in
the form of a simple TCP client/server, make sure it works, then add support
for multiple concurrent connections, and finally add support for relaying
accepted connections. After all the above pieces work, then you can start
putting them together. This will allow you to debug and isolate any problems
more easily.

5) Similarly, for testing, you can first try to manually provide some data to
your client-side program from stdin, and proxy it to a netcat instance on the
server side (stdin -> jumproxy-client -> jumproxy-server -> netcat). Once
this works, you can try sending/receiving some binary data (cat file |
jumproxy-client -> ...). Once this works, you can use netcat also at the
client side (in place of SSH), and then finally move on to the SSH use case.
Remember, your tool's interface is just stdin/stdout client-side mode, and a TCP
socket in server-side mode. SSH is just one use case.

6) You can assume that the user will manually provide the same passphrase on
both the client and the server.


8) Some useful resources:

https://go.dev/tour/welcome/1
https://www.golang-book.com/books/intro
https://www.developer.com/languages/intro-socket-programming-go/
https://github.com/dariubs/GoBooks
https://pkg.go.dev/net
https://pkg.go.dev/crypto/cipher
https://go.dev/src/crypto/cipher/example_test.go
https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/crypto/pbkdf2
https://medium.com/@HackTheBridge/beginners-guide-to-netcat-for-hackers-55abe449991d
https://www.imperialviolet.org/2015/05/16/aeads.html
